Did you get the pastries,
Micheál?
You didn't mention anything
about pastries.
Yes, but we get them every morning.
I might have remembered them had
you not got me up on my morning off.
It was you who wanted to work
different shifts!
It seems we don't have them.
Sorry about that.
So, that's 2 full Irish breakfasts
and 2 coffees?
Mikey, did I switch off the cooker
this morning?
This is a great time to remember it.
Don't start, I think I did but..!
You were in the kitchen
as I was leaving.
-Are you busy?
-No, you're fine.
-Call the man downstairs.
-He doesn't have a key.
He'll see the smoke
if the house is on fire!
Thanks for the reassurance!
Mikey, the customers are waiting.
I just wanted to check something
with Mikey.
-Something on the menu?
-No.
-So, you haven't ordered anything?
-No. I should go.
I'll see you later, Mikey.
-Pauline!
-Hi, Daniel.
She shouldn't have treated you
like that.
Who are you telling?
Don't pay any attention to her.
She's not all there.
-Perhaps you're right.
-I'm glad I met you. Have a seat.
Why?
Will you be in Ros na Rún
all morning?
Yes, as it happens.
I want to talk to you.
I'm embarrassed about the other day.
Daniel, we all have our own problems.
As you've just seen!
I suppose so. I will be
in Tigh Thaidhg at about 1pm.
You're on.
You didn't say anything to her?
Don't you believe me?
Forgive me Berni if I don't!
Myself and Pauline are finished
so stop tormenting her!
Besides, it's no concern of yours!
Right so. Keys, wallet..!
Condoms!
Mack, you are going to visit
your sister!
I know but you'd never know who
I'd meet between here and Belfast.
-You wish!
-Mobile.
-Did you see my mobile?
-No, I didn't.
It must be upstairs.
That lad has such notions
about himself.
-Yes, but he's good fun.
-Yeah.
It's weird having a lad in the house.
How?
I don't know.
It's strange to find a lad
looking at himself in the mirror...
..when you come out of your bedroom.
It's a big change.
Speaking of which! You need
to change some of your habits.
What do you mean?
Your clothes are thrown
all over the house.
I'm not that bad.
No you're worse, Róise.
-Dad!
-Hi.
-Is everything alright here?
-Yes, fine.
You'll soon need to put the heat on.
There was an airlock in the radiator
in your bedroom, wasn't there?
-Yes, there was.
-Mack can fix that.
-He's very handy around the house.
-Is he really?
-Yes, would you like a cup of coffee?
-I'll have a quick one.
Hey sex slaves. That threesome
last night was great...
..but you can't leave
this stuff on my bed. Vince!
-Mack.
-That was a joke!
I better go or I'll miss the train.
See you later.
Would you like some toast?
That would be great, thank you.
Tell me this, Séamus.
Did you get a bump on the head
recently?
Me? No, why?
This is the first time
you've offered to make me toast...
..since I came to live
in this house 7 years ago.
That's why!
Do you want it or not?
Of course I want it.
What's unusual is wonderful.
For the love of God.
Are you trying to kill me?
What did you spread on the toast?
Butter, that's all.
It's a strange tasting butter.
Where did you get it?
I'll put it this way,
I found it in the most unusual place!
Come in.
Hello.
Things turn up in
the strangest of places!
-Mo told me what happened.
-What's that, Sarah?
About the ancient butter herself
and Séamus found in the bog.
What do you mean, ancient butter?
Butter from the old days. She said
there was a large amount of it.
That's what you spread on my toast!
You should be ashamed of yourself!
What are you saying, Cóilín?
He tried to kill me by putting
that butter on my toast, the idiot!
That's what I'm telling you.
It didn't kill you.
A bit of butter never harmed anyone.
Why didn't you have some
if that's the case?
Stop, in the name of God.
This is big news!
Just these two, Peadar.
The Auto Trader. Are you thinking
of adding to your fleet?
You wouldn't know.
Hello? Oh, hello.
I'm on my way now.
I'll be in Heuston at about 2pm and
then I'll go straight to Connolly.
I'll be in Belfast at about 5.30pm.
Yeah okay, bye.
You have a long journey ahead of you.
I can take it easy on the train.
Why don't you take the car?
I'll leave the car here
to make me money while I'm away.
Listen to the businessman,
taking it easy on the train...
..while some poor idiot earns him
money driving the hackney.
-I was that idiot for long enough.Bye
-Bye. Safe home.
There could be a very important dig.
What are you talking about?
If they find something valuable...
..the place would be full
of archaeologists.
-They could be here for years.
-It would be good for the area.
Do you know exactly what will happen?
Nobody will be able to gather
turf next year.
I'll solve that problem.
I'll put it back where I found it
and that's that!
No, you won't! It's against the law
not to inform the museum.
The museum won't be any the wiser if
certain people keep their mouths shut
Really? Who was with you
when you found the butter?
The sergeant's daughter.
Sarah is right. You have no choice,
Séamus.
Mo is no informer. She won't say
anything. I'm sure of it.
If she doesn't, I will.
I won't keep quiet. It's
our duty to inform the authorities.
This had nothing to do with you.
But you had to stick
your big nose into it!
Sarah is right,
you must fulfil your obligations.
-I'll have another one.
-Another?
Is that alright?
You're knocking them back,
that's all.
All the better for you.
It's the same old story
for lone parents.
Children have such problems
accepting someone new in your life.
I can cope with that.
But abuse from the ex-wife
of a man whom I'm no longer seeing.
There are people like that.
They're jealousy-ridden.
-I don't like to be mean but..!
-Berni's like that?
Yes. Perhaps Micheál wasn't ready
for a relationship but..!
She took it as a personal insult
that he had a new woman.
I think so.
Nancy used to torment herself
about that too.
She was always questioning me
about people I met through work.
Maybe she was just interested
in your life?
She was much more obsessive
than that.
She used to call me all the time...
...wanting to know where I was,
who I was with.
If I switched off the phone
for a meeting she'd be enraged.
-That's terrible.
-Yes.
I don't know how I didn't realise it
before we got married.
We were very close at the start.
Listen to me talking nonsense
again. I'm sorry.
Don't be. You have to confide
in someone.
Do you want something?
I was looking for you.
Three and four there.
This is a game to be played alone.
You'll be alone at your party too
if we don't get a move on.
And so what if I am?
Look, there is a lot of work
involved.
I thought our plan would work.
How will it benefit us?
Bringing the village's scroungers
and spongers in.
Having them there all night long
singing and looking for free beer.
I thought you were happy to go ahead
with this a few days ago?
Not anymore. So forget it.
We needn't bother with it.
And E1.20. Thanks.
Is it a 21st?
No. This person is 50.
All we need is finger food.
Chicken goujons, paté and crackers.
-You know yourself.
-Will it be held this weekend?
That's the problem.
It's tomorrow night. I'm in a fix.
Tomorrow night?
I know but I'd be very grateful.
I'd pay you well.
We know but we're very busy
what with Jack gone and everything.
There wouldn't be that much involved.
-I suppose not.
-I'm sorry Angela..!
Excuse me Micheál but Berni and I
can sort this out ourselves.
-I'll do it.
-But Berni..!
Micheál, relax!
I'll be doing all the work, not you!
What type of budget did you
have in mind?
You make out a list
and we can come to some arrangement.
We'll be coming to you
half an hour into the programme.
Great, goodbye Mairéad.
Is this a radio station
or a train station?
I'm sorry Caitríona.
The lock is broken in my car
and I was afraid to leave them in it.
And I'm homeless at the moment
as well.
Why?
Because of my landlord.
He said he's selling the house.
Is he?
I think it has more to do
with the fact...
..that I refused to pay E300 extra
a month.
That's terrible.
Yes, so here I am with my house on my
back.
Poor Rory!
Honestly Dad, I don't know what you
saw in her in the first place.
She had no style.
20/20 vision is a wonderful thing!
Even so. It would do you good
to get rid of this stuff.
It's bad feng shui
to have it lying around.
Don't tell me you believe
in that claptrap?
No, I don't.
Janet believes in it, though.
Wherever she is.
You haven't been able
to contact her?
No, incredibly I haven't.
Do you think she is avoiding you?
I don't think she is. I know she is.
I hoped that she would answer
your calls.
I don't know why you hope.
She does it to me all the time.
Are you alright?
Yeah, I am.
Sometimes I get a bit dizzy.
You should lie down for a while, Dad.
Maybe I will. For an hour or so.
You're alright.
Janet, this is Suzy, your sister!
I'm fed up of calling you
and not getting a reply.
Call me, now! I'm in Dad's apartment
in Ros na Rún. It's urgent.
In case you've forgotten the number
is 091..!
So, I don't love you?
No.
Evan, what have I done wrong?
Is that the reason Micheál has been
scratched out of this picture?
Yes.
But Evan that's a terrible thing
to do.
Listen to me now.
-Who told you that I didn't love you?
-Mammy.
Mammy?
So Mammy told you that
I didn't love you?
Berni, come here.
-I'm busy.
-What have you been telling Evan?
Shh, the customers might hear you.
-Did you tell him I didn't love him?
-Now is not the time.
Perhaps not. I'll be back at 5 pm
when it's quiet...
..to discuss this. Do you understand?
Alright! Alright!
I like the idea!
You haven't said much, Caitríona.
Are you happy with it?
It's not that I'm against
hosting a programme with Rory..!
-I should hope not.
-You know well I'm not.
-But..!
-But what?
I don't think it's very practical
in a small station like this.
We barely have enough people
to put out the current schedule.
Not to mention doubling up like this.
Well, we need a central focus
within the schedule.
I think the two of you together
can do that.
-It's worth a try.
-Sure.
That's that then.
I need to make a move.
I'll speak to you both tomorrow.
Mickey, we'll be closing
as soon as they leave.
I've just made a fresh pot of coffee.
-It doesn't matter.
-Are you serious?
Do I look like I'm joking? Throw out
that coffee and clean the machine.
You're the boss.
Janet. This is Suzy.
Did you not get my messages?
That's very strange.
You haven't paid your family
much attention recently, have you?
You know well what I mean by that.
Dad says you haven't called him
in 6 months.
Don't you know how sick he was?
You visited him while he was
in a coma.
Where are you now? He is on dialysis.
Yes, dialysis.
His kidneys are badly damaged.
He nearly died.
No, he's not here now.
He's at work.
He's not looking after himself
at all.
But you're obviously
not very concerned.
He's just arrived. I don't want
to upset him. Just call him okay?
Bye.
-Hi.
-Hi love.
Who were you talking to?
-Janet!
-Janet?
-Did she call?
-No.
I called her.
But she said she'd be
in contact soon.
How soon?
You know Janet.
The party is sorted now.
Berni is preparing the food.
We're okay if the woman from Aran
is helping us!
I won't be under pressure.
I can enjoy the occasion.
I thought I was supposed
to be the one to enjoy myself.
Hi Angela, how are things?
I don't know why I bother sometimes.
What do you mean?
-Tadhg has no interest in this party.
-Doesn't he?
-He is being childish.
-That's men for you.
My man anyway.
I could have a word with him
if you like?
He might listen to someone
other than me.
It's worth a try. I'd say he just
needs a bit of flattery.
Hi Tadhg.
Suzy, it's you.
Berni, just the woman
I was looking for.
Why?
Did you have any ideas
about the food?
Yes, a few. To tell you the truth,
I came in for a drink.
I need it after the day I've had.
Of course. What will you have?
It's on the house.
-I'll have a G&T then, please.
-Right.
Berni! Berni!
Sorry, we're closed.
I'm sorry.
Don't worry Tadhg.
It'll be a great night!
Do you think so?
Yes. If I say it'll be a good night,
it will be.
You seem very sure.
I always keep my word,
you'll see.
That could be very interesting.
Did he tell you about the butter?
No. Don't tell me
you're making butter, Séamus.
For the love of God, you can't even
relax in the pub now.
Relax? And such an historic story
on our doorstep.
What's this, Séamus?
Hello, Cóilín. Here's the man
who'll tell us all about it.
-Were you talking to the museum?
-What friggin' museum?
-The museum.
-What did they think of your news?
The girl in the office told me that
their archaeologist is in Co. Clare.
She said that she would try
to contact him.
I wonder which archaeologist it is?
As if you know any of them!
I think she said Dr. de Brún.
Dr. Alasdar de Brún?
I'm not sure.
I bet it's him. He is a lovely man.
He used to come here years ago
to learn Irish.
He got an earful from you!
You probably couldn't keep
your mouth shut then either.
What is there for him
around here anyway?
An important discovery
of ancient butter.
Séamus and the sergeant's daughter
found it in the bog.
Something like that was found
back home years ago.
-There was a lot of talk about it.
-See, Séamus?
Next you'll be giving guided tours
of Ros na Rún's history!
As if I don't have enough
on my plate!
-Berni, I'd like a word with you.
-Go on!
Privately, please.
Right then, excuse me.
Angela!
It's sorted. He's looking forward
to the party.
You're joking!
-He's fine with it.
-Well done.
I'll call in tomorrow
to discuss everything.
Right, well done.
It's one thing to say it to me.
I'm an adult.
It's an entirely different matter
to say it to a child.
Are you telling me how
to raise my child?
No, I'm not. I'm not telling you now
and I never will again.
So, what are you trying to tell me?
I've decided not to have anything
to do with Evan in the future.
-Micheál!
-End of story.
You're willing to lie to a little
boy and tell him I don't love him.
After all I've done for him,
for both of you.
I can't put up with that.
It wasn't like that.
This is how it is and that's how
it's going to be. That's that.
Don't you realise
this is breaking my heart?
But you leave me with no alternative.
I pity him. I pity him
having you as a mother.
Your maliciousness
will hurt him the most.